
   Consent for Establishment    shall be obtained from Gujarat Pollution Control Board under Air and Water Act and a copy shall be submitted to the Ministry before start of any construction work at the site.

The dredge materials contain sand   46   Silt  21  and Clay 33 . However  the proponent shall carryout chemical characteristics before disposal  using it for reclamation to ensure its suitability and prevent any likely impact. 

The storm water management shall be put in place before the commencement of the activities. Storm management report with technical details shall be submitted to RO of MoEF within six months.

The proponent shall provide minimum  100  m  buffer from the mangroves The existing mangroves shall be documented with latest satellite map and shall be submitted to RO  MoEF for compliance verification purpose.

Requisite clearances including clearance from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation  PESOformerly Explosive Department  Nagpur shall be obtained for establishing tank forms. All relevant provisions of MSIHC Rules 1989 shall be complied.

Green belt of not less than 33   shall be developed and maintained all along the boundary.

The dry cargo shall be unloaded in to hopper and from hopper it will be taken through closed conveyor system to the storage yards.

Mitigation plan for handling the dusty cargo  around storage yards as per presentation may be stipulated.

There shall be no ground water drawal within CRZ area.

Sewage shall be treated and the Treatment Facility shall be provided in accordance with the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification  2011. The disposal of treated water shall confirm the regulation of State Pollution Control Board.

Solid waste Management shall be as per Municipal Solid  Management and HandlingRules  2000.

The project shall be executed in such a manner that there shall not be any disturbance to the fishing activity.

It shall be ensured that there is no displacement of people  houses or fishing activity as a result of the project.

No construction work other than those permitted in Coastal Regulation Zone Notification shall be carried out in Coastal Regulation Zone area.

The project proponent shall set up separate environmental management cell for effective implementation of the stipulated environmental safeguards under the supervision of a Senior Executive.

The funds earmarked for environment management plan shall be included in the budget and this shall not be diverted for any other purposes.

Appropriate measures must be taken while undertaking digging activities to avoid any likely degradation of water quality.

Full support shall be extended to the officers of this Ministry Regional Office at Bhopal by the project proponent during inspection of the project for monitoring purposes by furnishing full details and action plan including action taken reports in respect of mitigation measures and other environmental protection activities.

A six Monthly monitoring report shall need to be submitted by the project proponents to the Regional Office of this Ministry at Bhopal regarding the implementation of the stipulated conditions.

Ministry of Environment   Forests or any other competent authority may stipulate any additional conditions or modify the existing ones  if necessary in the interest of environment and the same shall be complied with.

The Ministry reserves the right to revoke this clearance if any of the conditions stipulated are not complied with the satisfaction of the Ministry.

In the event of a change in project profile or change in the implementation agency  a fresh reference shall be made to the Ministry of Environment and Forests.

The project proponents shall inform the Regional Office as well as the Ministry  the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the date of start of land development work.

A copy of the clearance letter shall be marked to concerned Panchayat local NGO  if any  from whom any suggestion  representation has been made received while processing the proposal.

Gujarat Pollution Control Board shall display a copy of the clearance letter at the Regional Office  District Industries Center and Collector   s Office Tehsildar   s office for 30 days.

No.460 of 2004 as may be applicable to this project.

to the respective Regional Office of MoEF  the respective Zonal Office of CPCB and the SPCB.
