
dated 19.03.2008 for Terms of Reference  which was granted vide MOEF letter dated 12.06.2008 and with reference to your application for environmental clearance based on the prescribed Terms of Reference vide letter No. GMDC ENV 4171 2010 dated 10.03.2010 on the above mentioned subject and letters dated 19.03.2008  10.03.1010 and 07.08.2010. The Ministry of Environment   Forests has considered the application. It is noted that the project was granted EC on 19.11.1999 for 0.6 MTPA production capacity. The present proposal is for expansion of production of lignite from 0.6 MTPA to 2.40 MTPA in an ML area of 1752.6156 ha acquired. No additional land is to be acquired. Of the total ML area  407.22 ha is agriculture land and 1314.7138 ha is Govt. waste land. No forestland is involved. There are a number of RF found within the 10km buffer zone. Gugariana RF is found about 0.3 Km away from core. Indian Grey Wolf and Chinkara are the reported Schedule I fauna found in the area. According to letter No. WLP 32 A 1062 25 dated 19.03.2010 of Principal Chief Conservator of Forests  Government of Gujarat  the Narayan Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary is located at a distance of 3.78 km from the ML and a Wildlife Conservation Plan is under implementation at a Capital cost of Rs 73 lakhs and an annual recurring cost of Rs. 34 lakhs. There are no major river passing through the lease and the area has a few small dry seasonal nalas of which one seasonal nallah passes through the lease. However  the drains passing through the ML form the catchment of a drain passing through the Naryan Sarovar WL Sanctuary. The Sanctuary is not in the predominant down wind direction of the mine.

The project proponent shall obtain the prior approval of the    Standing Committee on Wildlife     if required  before expansion of mining operations.

No additional land shall be acquired for the present project.

Area of 587.0256 ha under exploration and 272.74 ha which includes unutilised area within the ML shall be developed as gauchar land using native grass species. Peripheral plantation being developed along the mine boundary near the Narayan Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary shall be developed with suitable plant species which form part of the natural habitat of the area.

A Mine Drainage Plan with a surface drainage design of the mine resulting from surface run offs and diversion of seasonal nalas found within the active mining area which form the main drain draining into the Narayan Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary and for the mine discharge water based on a peak rainfall data shall be prepared and implemented. The south side diverted nala shall be realigned to its original course after the 6th year of mine operation.

Mine discharge water form the ML joining the drain which serves as the catchment of the Naryan Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary shall be treated to prescribed standards before discharge and records thereof maintained and furnished as part of the Compliance Report to MOEF  RO at Bhopal.

Topsoil shall be stacked properly with proper slope at earmarked site sand shall not be kept active and shall be used within a year of its generation for reclamation and development of green belt.

OB shall be stacked at earmarked external OB dumpsite within ML area. The ultimate slope of the existing dumps shall not exceed 28o. Monitoring and management of existing reclaimed dumpsites shall continue until the vegetation becomes self sustaining. Compliance status shall be submitted to the Ministry of Environment   Forests and its Regional office located at Bhopal on yearly basis. The OB stored temporarily in external OB dumps in the expansion project shall be backfilled into the decoaled quarry.

A garland drain all around and encircling the two quarry pits shall be established to drain the water away from working areas.  Catch drains and siltation ponds of appropriate size shall be constructed to arrest silt and sediment flows from soil  OB and mineral dumps. The water so collected shall be utilized for watering the mine area  roads  green belt development  etc. The drains shall be regularly desilted and maintained properly.

Dimension of the retaining wall at the toe of the dumps and OB benches within the mine to check run off and siltation shall be based on the rainfall data.

Regular monitoring of groundwater level and quality shall be carried out by establishing a network of exiting wells and construction of new peizometers. The monitoring for quantity shall be done four times a year in pre monsoon  May  monsoon  August  post monsoon  November and winter  January seasons and for quality  including TDS and acid mine water in May. Data thus collected shall be submitted to the Ministry of Environment   Forests and to the Central Pollution Control Board quarterly within one month of monitoring. Water quality parameter such as TDS  Sulphate  Nitrate etc. and acidic mine water if any  shall be treated to confirm to prescribe standards before discharge or use in dust suppression  green belt development. Records of the water quality of the mine discharge water shall be maintained. Recognised institutions such as National Geophysical Research Institute  Hyderabad shall be involved for undertaking such a study.

Mine pit water which is high in TDS shall be treated in an RO Plant for desalination using Solar Energy technology to prescribed limits for various uses including supply of potable water to nearby villages and to schools adopted under CSR and before discharge into natural water land. No brine sludge shall be store dwithin the premises. Brine sludge generated shall be disposed off to potential buyers  chemical unitswith whom the proponent shall enter into an MOU.

The Company shall put up artificial groundwater recharge measures such as check dams within and adjoining the lease for augmentation of groundwater resource in case monitoring indicates decline in water table  in consultation with the local communities and with the Wildlife Department of the State Government. The project authorities shall meet water requirement of nearby village sin case the village wells go dry due to dewatering of mine.

A minimum 20m distance shall be maintained between the ultimate working depth and the depth at which the confined water aquifer is found. It shall be ensured that at no stage of the mining operation  the confined aquifer is intersected.

No groundwater shall be used for mining operations. Additional water required  if any  shall be met by recycling reuse of the water from the existing activities and from rainwater harvesting measures.

Water sprinkling system shall be provided to check fugitive emissions  haulage roads  transfer points  etc and fugitive dust emissions shall be kept under control.

All approach roads  major haul roads and road to village shall be black topped.

Controlled blasting shall be kept to a minimum and only whenever hard starta is encountered.

Transportation of lignite shall be in trucks covered with tarpaulin.

No mineral transportation shall be undertaken through the sanctuary or area falling within the mine and the Sanctuary  which is buffer to the mine and the Sanctuary.

No stockpile of lignite shall be permitted. The lignite produced from mine face shall be transported immediately. 

ETP shall also be provided for workshop  and CHP. Effluents shall be treated to conform to prescribed standards  particularly for pH and TDS in case of discharge into any water course outside the lease.

Socio economic survey shall be undertaken before expansion of the project. CSR for the six identified villages of an amount of Rs 5 tonne of lignite or Rs 6 crores per annum whichever is higher shall be earmarked. The details of expenditure and various activities shall be drawn up in consultation with the local communities and implemented through VDICs. The socio economic development of the villages shall be monitored over the life of the project and impact of CSR assessed every 3 years using indices such as the UNDP Human Development Index and furnished as part of the Monitoring Report and also regularly uploaded on the company website.

A 50m wide green belt shall be created along the lease boundary using native species as peripheral plantation. Area brought under pastureland agricultural land shall not be less than 1590.2356 ha which includes reclaimed external OB dump area  82.68ha  backfilled area  647.83 ha  along ML boundary  along roads  green belt and plantation in undisturbed areas  272.7 ha and area under exploration 587.0256 ha by planting native species in consultation with the local DFO Agriculture Department.

A Progressive Closure Plan shall be implemented of quarry area of which 647.83 ha shall be backfilled and afforested by planting native plant species in consultation with the local DFO Agriculture Department. The density of the trees shall be around 2500 plants per ha. It shall be ensured that the balance decoaled void of 51.68 ha being left as a water body  the upper slopes of which shall be gently sloped and reclaimed with grass and plantation. The quality of the water in the water body shall be regularly monitored and treated to ensure that it is not acidic.

Third Party evaluation of the Habitat Restoration Plan which includes Progressive Mine Closure and Final Mine Closure shall be got done and furnished as part of the Monitoring Report.

For monitoring land use pattern and for post mining land use  a time series of land use maps  based on satellite imagery  on a scale of 1  5000of the core zone and buffer zone  from the start of the project until end of mine life shall be prepared once in 3 years  for any one particular season which is consistent in the time series  and the report submitted to MOEF and its Regional office at Bhopal.

A Final Mine Closure Plan along with details of Corpus Fund shall be submitted to the Ministry of Environment   Forests for approval 5 years in advance of final mine closure for approval. At the Post mining stage  land should be restored as pastureland agricultural land use.

No change in technology and scope of working shall be made without prior approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forests.

No change in the calendar plan including quantum of mineral coal and waste being produced shall be made.

Four ambient air quality monitoring stations shall be established in the core zone as well as in the buffer zone for monitoring PM10  PM2.5  SO2 and NOx.  Location of the stations shall be decided based on the meteorological data  topographical features and environmentally and ecologically sensitive targets in consultation with the State Pollution Control Board.  Monitoring of heavy metals such as Hg  As  Ni  Cd  Cr  in particulates shall be carried out at least once in six months.

Data on ambient air quality  PM10  PM 2.5  SO2 and NOx and heavy metals such as Hg  As  Ni  Cr  etand other monitoring data shall be regularly submitted to the Ministry including its Regional Office at Bhopal and to the State Pollution Control Board and the Central Pollution Control Board once in six months. Random verification of samples through analysis from independent laboratories recognised under the EP Rules  1986 shall be furnished as part of the compliance report.

Adequate measures shall be taken for control of noise levels below 85 dBA in the work environment. Workers engaged in blasting and drilling operations  operation of HEMM  etc shall be provided with ear plugs muffs.

Industrial wastewater  workshop and wastewater from the mineshall be properly collected  and treated so as to conform to the standards including for heavy metals before discharge prescribed under GSR 422  Edated 19th May 1993 and 31st December 1993 or as amended from time to time. Oil and grease trap shall be installed before discharge of workshop effluents.

Vehicular emissions shall be kept under control and regularly monitored. Vehicles used for transportation of the mineral shall be covered with tarpaulins and optimally loaded.

Monitoring of environmental quality parameters shall be carried out through establishment of adequate number and type of pollution monitoring and analysis equipment in consultation with the State Pollution Control Board and data got analysed through a laboratory recognised under EP Rules  1986.

Personnel working in dusty areas shall wear protective respiratory devices and they shall also be provided with adequate training and information on safety and health aspects.

A separate environmental management cell with suitable qualified personnel shall be set up under the control of a Senior Executive  who will report directly to the Head of the company.

The funds earmarked for environmental protection measures shall be kept in separate account and shall not be diverted for other purpose. Year wise expenditure shall be reported to this Ministry and its Regional Office at Bhopal.

A copy of the environmental clearance letter shall be marked to concerned Panchayat Zila Parishad  Municipal Corporation or Urban Local Body and local NGO  if any  from whom any suggestion representation has been received while processing the proposal. A copy of the clearance letter shall also be displayed on the company   s website.

A copy of the clearance letter shall be displayed on the website of the concerned State Pollution Control Board. The EC letter shall also be displayed at the Regional Office  District Industry Centre and Collector   s Office Tehsildar   s Office for 30 days.

The clearance letter shall be uploaded on the company   s website. The compliance status of the stipulated EC conditions shall also be uploaded by the project authorities on their website and updated at least once every six months so as to bring the same in the public domain. The monitoring data of environmental quality parameters  air  water  noise and soiand critical pollutants such as PM10  PM2.5  SO2 and NOx  ambient and stack if anyand critical sectoral parameters shall also be displayed at the entrance of the project premises and mines office and in corporate office and on the company   s website.

The project proponent shall submit six monthly reports on the status of compliance of the stipulated environmental clearance conditions  both in hard copy and in e maito the respective Regional Office of the MOEF  the respective Zonal offices of CPCB and the SPCB.

The Regional Office of this Ministry located at Bhopal shall monitor compliance of the stipulated conditions. The Project authorities shall extend full cooperation to the office sof the Regional Office by furnishing the requisite data  information monitoring reports.

The environmental statement for each financial year ending 31st March in Form V is mandated to be submitted by the project proponent tot the concerned State Pollution Control Board as prescribed under the Environment  ProtectionRules  1986  as amended subsequently  shall also be uploaded on the company   s website along with the status of compliance of EC conditions and shall be sent to the respective Regional Offices of the MOEF by E mail.
