
All the conditions stipulated by Ministry of Environment and Forests  Regional Office  Western Region  Bhopal  vide their letter No.6 GJC060 2006 BHO 1508  dated 16.6.2008 shall be strictly adhered to.

All the conditions stipulated by Forest and Environment Department  Government of Gujarat vide their letter No.FCA 1006 10 9SF 76 K  dated 1.7.2008 dated 16.6.2008 shall be strictly adhered to.

No reclamation will be carried out for the activity.

All conditions stipulated by the Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority including Ministry of Environment and Forests clearance dated 16.6.2008 under the Forest Conservation Act shall be complied.

Sewage Treatment Plant shall be included in the project.

Afforestation in 200 ha with mangroves shall be undertaken under the project  as identified by the Gujarat Forest Department.

Afforestation  1 3 shall be carried out in case of any trees to be cut.

The recommendations of the Risk Assessment Report shall be incorporated.

The materials for the filling and pavement construction shall be made available from approved quarries.

Sufficient fixed and mobile fire fighting system shall be provided exclusively for the terminal in consultation with the local statutory bodies.

All development in the port shall be carried out in accordance with the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification  1991 and approved Coastal Zone Management Plan of Gujarat.

There shall be no withdrawal of ground water in CRZ area  for this project. The proponent shall ensure that as a result of the proposed constructions  ingress of saline water into ground water does not take place. Piezometers shall be installed for regular monitoring for this purpose at appropriate locations on the project site.

The project shall not be commissioned till the requisite water supply and electricity to the project are provided by the PWD Electricity Department.

Specific arrangements for rain water harvesting shall be made in the project design and the rain water so harvested shall be optimally utilised. Details in this regard shall be furnished to this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal within 3 months.

No land reclamation shall be carried out for this project.

Green buffer zone shall be provided all around the project area in consultation with local forest department and the report submitted to this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal.

The facilities to be constructed in the CRZ area as part of this project shall be strictly in conformity with the provisions of the CRZ Notification  1991 as amended subsequently. 

No product other than those permissible in the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification  1991 shall be stored in the Coastal Regulation Zone area.

Construction of the proposed structures shall be undertaken meticulously conforming to the existing Central local rules and regulations including Coastal Regulation Zone Notification 1991   its amendments. All the construction designs drawings relating to the proposed construction activities must have approvals of the concerned State Government Departments Agencies.

Adequate provisions for infrastructure facilities such as water supply  fuel  sanitation etc. shall be ensured for construction workers during the construction phase of the project so as to avoid felling of trees mangroves and pollution of water and the surroundings.

The project authorities must make necessary arrangements for disposal of solid wastes and for the treatment of effluents by providing a proper wastewater treatment plant outside the CRZ area. The quality of treated effluents  solid wastes and noise level etc. must conform to the standards laid down by the competent authorities including the Central State Pollution Control Board and the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests under the Environment  ProtectionAct  1986  whichever are more stringent.

The proponent shall obtain the requisite consents for discharge of effluents and emissions under the Water  Prevention and Control of PollutionAct  1974 and the Air  prevention and Control of PollutionAct  1981 from the Gujarat State Pollution Control Board before commissioning of the project and a copy of each of these shall be sent to this Ministry.

The proponents shall provide for a regular monitoring mechanism so as to ensure that the treated effluents conform to the prescribed standards. The records of analysis reports must be properly maintained and made available for inspection to the concerned State Central officials during their visits.

In order to carry out the environmental monitoring during the operational phase of the project  the project authorities shall provide an environmental laboratory well equipped with standard equipment and facilities and qualified manpower to carry out the testing of various environmental parameters.

The sand dunes and mangroves  if any  on the site shall not be disturbed in any way.

A copy of the clearance letter will be marked to the concerned Panchayat local NGO  if any  from whom any suggestion representation has been received while processing the proposal.

The Gujarat State Pollution Control Board shall display a copy of the clearance letter at the Regional Office  District Industries Centre and Collector s Office Tehsildar s Office for 30 days.

The funds earmarked for environment protection measures shall be maintained  in a separate account and there shall be no diversion of these funds for any other purpose. A year wise expenditure on environmental safeguards shall be reported to this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal and the State Pollution Control Board.

Full support shall be extended to the officers of this Ministry s Regional Office at Bhopal and the officers of the Central and Sate Pollution Control Boards by the project proponents during their inspection for monitoring purposes  by furnishing full details and action plans including the action taken reports in respect of mitigative measures and other environmental protection activities.

In case of deviation or alteration in the project including the implementing agency  a fresh reference shall be made to this Ministry for modification in the clearance conditions or imposition of new ones for ensuring environmental protection.

This Ministry reserve the right to revoke this clearance  if any of the conditions stipulated are not complied with to the satisfaction of this Ministry.

This Ministry or any other competent authority may stipulate any other additional conditions subsequently  if deemed necessary  for environmental protection  which shall be complied with.

The project proponent shall advertise at least in two local newspapers widely circulated in the region around the project  one of which shall be in the vernacular language of the locality concerned informing that the project has been accorded environmental clearance and copies of clearance letters are available with the State Pollution Control Board and may also be seen at Website of the Ministry of Environment   Forests at http   www.envfornic.in.  The advertisement shall be made within 7 days from the date of issue of the clearance letter and a copy of the same shall be forwarded to the Regional Office of this Ministry at Bhopal.

The Project proponents shall inform the Regional Office at Bhopal as well as the Ministry the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the date of start of Land Development Work.

Any appeal against this environmental clearance shall lie with the National Environment Appellate Authority  if preferred  within a period of 30 days as prescribed under Section 11 of the National Environment Appellate Act  1997.
