
Detailed MOU among the generator units shall be worked out with the partner unit to ensure that the units comply with the agreement and send their effluents as per the agreement. The effluent generator units who have agreed to the terms and conditions of the MoU shall provide the effluents as per the agreed norms .The copy of the MoU shall be sent to this Ministry.

CO emissions shall be monitored.

No Objection Certificate from the Gujarat State Pollution Control Board shall be obtained before initiating the project.

The project proponent shall ensure that chemicals s solvents such as Methyl Chloride and other toxic solvents are not allowed to enter the CETP.

There shall be no disposal of untreated effluents into the water bodies or anywhere outside the project premises.

The CETP units shall maintain Zero discharge throughout the year. Necessary provisions facilities shall be provided to take care of additional water in rainy seasons.

In the event of the CETPs not functioning as proposed  breakdown of the CETP the units will close down immediately and stop discharging the effluents.

The groundwater utilize for the project shall not exceed 102.5MLD.

The units and the CETP will maintain daily log book of the quantity and quality of discharge from the units  quantity of inflow into the CETP  details of the treatment at each stage of the CETP including the raw materials used  quantity of the treated water proposed to be recycled  reused within the textile park units  quantity of the treated effluent discharged. All the above information shall be provided on  line of the web site exclusively prepared for the purpose by the CETP owner. The website shall be accessible by the public. The financial and energy details of the CETP will also be provided along with details of the workers of the CETP.

The CETP shall have adequate power back up facility  to meet the energy requirement in case of  power failure from the grid.

The CETP owner shall study the water quality of the nalla river where the units were earlier discharging the effluents. For this purpose the CETP owner shall also monitor the nalla river water quality on daily basis as per CPCB norms at atleast at 4 locations in the nalla river stretch  2 KM upstream from the project site and 2 Km down stream from the project site. This information will also be put on the above mentioned web site along with reasons for changes in nalla river water quality if any.

The CETP shall be accessible by the public to monitor the functioning of the CETP.

The solid waste from CETP units will be disposed off as per the norms laid down by Gujarat State Pollution Control Board.

A land area of 10 acres or more shall be earmarked for development of green belt.

The ground water at the site will also be monitored and information made available on the above web site of the company.

Since  the river flowing near the project site is polluted  the project proponent shall suggest a sewage treatment system in consultation with the local administration. This would be in line with the commitment to the local environment. A plan in this regard shall be sent to MOEF with in 6 months.

Treated effluents conforming to the prescribed standards shall be re circulated and reused as much as possible within the plant area. The balance treated effluent shall be discharged in the nala as indicated  Environmental Impact Assessment report.

Rainwater harvesting shall be practiced. A detailed scheme for rainwater harvesting to recharge the groundwater aquifer shall be prepared in consultation with Central Ground Water Authority State Groundwater Board and a copy of the same shall be submitted within three months to this Ministry.

Natural gas shall only be used as fuel for the power plant. No other fuel shall be used.

Necessary permission from the Chief Controller of Explosives shall be obtained and a copy of the same shall be submitted.

Closed cycle cooling system with cooling towers  for the power plant shall be provided.

For the power plant an appropriate stack height as per CPCB guidelines with exit velocity of not less 25m s shall be provided with continuous on line monitoring system. The data collected shall be analyzed and submitted regularly to the Ministry.

Low dry NOx burner shall be installed. NOx emission shall not exceed 50 ppm.

Leq of noise level shall be limited to 75 dBA and regular maintenance of equipments shall be undertaken. For people working in high noise areas  personal protection devices shall be provided.

All the above information shall be complied and a report shall be submitted to GPCB and the Regional Office of MOEF at Bhopal.

The project proponent shall ensure that the facilities constructed for the project will not cause any inconvenience or disturbance to the local communities including the fisherman.

Any modification of the project shall be taken up only after obtaining necessary approvals from the concerned agencies.

Construction of the proposed CETP shall be undertaken meticulously confirming to the existing Central local rules and regulations. All the construction designs drawings relating to the proposed construction activities must have approvals of the concerned State Government Department Agencies.

The project authorities shall take appropriate community development and welfare measures for the villagers in the vicinity of the project site  including drinking water facilities. A separate fund shall be allocated for this purpose and same indicated to Regional Office at Bhopal.

To meet any emergency situation  appropriate fire fighting system shall be installed. Appropriate arrangements for uninterrupted power supply to the environment protection equipment and continuous water supply for the fire fighting system shall be made.

A separate Environment Management Cell with suitably qualified staff to carry out various environment related functions shall be set up under the charge of a Senior Executive who will report directly to the Chief Executive of the Company.

The funds earmarked for environment protection measures shall be maintained in a separate account and there shall be no diversion of these funds for any other purpose. A year wise expenditure on environmental safeguards shall be reported to this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal.

Full support shall be extended to the officers of this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal and the officers of the Central and State Pollution Control Board by the project proponents during their inspection for monitoring purposes  by furnishing full details and action plans including the action taken reports in respect of mitigative measures and other environmental protection activities.

In case of deviation or alteration in the project including the implementing agency  a fresh reference shall be made to this Ministry for modification in the clearance conditions or imposition of new one for ensuring environmental protection. The project proponents shall be responsible for implementing the suggested safeguard measures.

This Ministry reserves the right to revoke this clearance  if any of the conditions stipulated are not complied with to the satisfaction of this Ministry.

This Ministry or any other competent authority may stipulate any other additional conditions subsequently  if deemed necessary  for environmental protection  which shall be complied with.

A copy of the clearance letter shall be marked to the concerned Panchayat local NGO  if any  from whom any suggestion representation has been received while processing the proposal.

State Pollution Control Board Committee shall display a copy of the clearance letter at the District Industries Center and Collector   s Office  Tehsildar   s Office for 30 days.

The project proponent shall advertise at least in two local newspapers widely circulated in the region around the project  one of which shall be in the vernacular language of the locality concerned informing that the project has been accorded environmental clearance and copies of clearance letters are available with the Gujarat State Pollution Control Board and may also be seen at website of the Ministry of Environment   Forests at http   www.envfor.nic.in.   

The project proponents shall inform Regional Office Bhopal as well as the Ministry  the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the date of start of work.

The project proponent will obtain the Forest clearance for the land passing through the Reserved Forest area before commencement of the project activities in forest area.

So as to maintain ecological features and avoid damage to the ecosystem  movement of vehicles in the Inter Tidal Zone shall be restricted to the minimum.

Budgetary break up for Environmental Management Plan for the project to be mentioned.

Any appeal against this environmental clearance shall lie with the National Environment Appellate Authority  if preferred  within a period of 30 days as prescribed under Section 11 of the National Environment Appellate Act  1997.
