
  approach road covering area of 1.0 ha. and intake pipeline and well of 0.12 ha. and outfall pipeline 0.13 ha. for desalination plant and for development of jetty back up area at Kharo Creek near village Akri Moti in Kutch district of Gujarat. An area of 50 has been earmarked for captive jetty facilities i.e. belt conveyor  site packing plant and jetty out of the total 313 ha of land for the project. The optimize size of vessel operating at the proposed jetty would be 3000 DWT.  The total water requirement is about 38 cum day. The sewage generated is normally taken as 80  of the total water requirement i.e. 31 cum day.  The total area to be acquired is 1.60 ha. It is further mentioned that though the above referred project area is designated as West Mangrove Forests  the area is devoid of forest mangrove. The total cost of project estimated is Rs. 5.25 Million.

as well as the area between the HTL and 150 m from the HTL which is categorized as CRZ III area.

   Consent for Establishment    shall be obtained from State Pollution Control Board under Air and Water Act and a copy shall be submitted to the Ministry before start of any construction work at the site.

All conditions stipulated by Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority vide letter No.  ENV 10 2009 1112 E  dated 29.09.2009 shall be strictly complied with.

The marine water quality shall be monitored and report submitted to MoEF on a six monthly basis.

Ambient monitoring shall include for RSPM of less than 2.5 micron also.

Dust suppression measures shall be provided along transportation through conveyor.

Mangrove plantation on an area of 500 ha. shall be carried out as per the condition stipulated by the Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority in consultation with the Government of Gujarat.  A plan of mangrove plantation shall be submitted to the Ministry.

The hydro dynamic studies shall be undertaken to indicate that the construction activities shall not have significant impact to the shoreline abetting the project and has no significant impact on the ecologically sensitive areas along the stretch.

The approach road to the project site should be a proper compacted metal road instead of a unpaved road.

No construction work other than those permitted in Coastal Regulation Zone Notification shall be carried out in Coastal Regulation Zone area.

No mangroves or other ecological important areas shall be destroyed.

It shall be ensured that the project does not lead to any shoreline changes. Periodic monitoring shall be carried out to asses the shoreline changes.

The wastewater generated shall be treated as per the GPCB norms in the Effluent Treatment Plan before letting into creek.

Green belt with appropriate species shall be developed within the project site.

The site shall be kept free from pollution by providing suitable drainage system.

Sewage Treatment Facility shall be provided in accordance with the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification  1991.

The project proponent shall provide adequate funds in the Environment Management Plan of the project.

It shall be ensured that the fishing fisherman communities shall not be disturbed during operation of the project.

The construction of the structures should be undertaken as per the plans approved by the concerned local authorities local administration  meticulously conforming to the existing local and Central rules and regulations including the provisions of Coastal Regulation Zone Notification dated 19.02.1991 and the approved Coastal Zone Management Plan of Gujarat.

In the event of any change in the project profile a fresh reference shall be made to the Ministry of Environment and Forests.

This Ministry reserves the right to revoke this clearance  if any  of the conditions stipulated are not complied with to the satisfaction of this Ministry.

This Ministry or any other competent authority may stipulate any additional conditions subsequently  if deemed necessary  for environmental protection  which shall be complied with.

Full support should be extended to the officers of this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal and the offices of the Central and State Pollution Control Board by the project proponents during their inspection for monitoring purposes  by furnishing full details and action plans including the action taken reports in respect of mitigative measures and other environmental protection activities.

to the respective Regional Office of MoEF  the respective Zonal Office of CPCB and the SPCB.
