
Hydro geological study of the area shall be reviewed annually to assess the sustainability of the source of water particularly in lean season. The review report duly vetted by the concerned Dept. in the state government shall be submitted to the Ministry. In case adverse impact on ground and surface water is observed  immediate mitigating steps to contain the same shall be undertaken. No ground water shall be extracted for the project work at any stage.

Monitoring of surface water quantity and quality shall be regularly conducted and records maintained. The monitored data shall be submitted to the Ministry regularly. Further  monitoring points shall be located between the plant and drainage in the direction of flow of ground water and records maintained. Monitoring for heavy metals in ground water shall be undertaken.

Village ponds in the study area  especially in the vicinity of the project site shall be regenerated   maintained by the project proponent at its own expenses.

A well designed rainwater harvesting shall be put in place. Central Groundwater Authority  Board shall be consulted for finalization of appropriate rainwater harvesting technology within a period of three months from the date issue of clearance and details shall be furnished. Status of implementation shall be submitted to the Regional Office of the Ministry.

COC of 5.0 shall be adopted.

The treated effluent conforming to the prescribed standards only shall be reused to the extent possible and excess discharged. Arrangements shall be made that effluents and storm water do not get mixed.

A sewage treatment plant shall be provided  as applicableand the treated sewage shall be used for raising greenbelt plantation. Continuous monitoring of effluent discharge shall be undertaken and it shall be ensured that when discharge enters the natural drain the temperature of effluent shall be at ambient.

Well designed acoustic enclosures for the DG sets and noise emitting equipments to achieve the desirable insertion loss viz. 25 dB Ashould be provided.

Noise levels emanating from turbines shall be so controlled such that the noise in the work zone shall be limited to 75 dBA at 1m from the source of noise. For people working in the high noise area  requisite personal protective equipment like earplugs ear muffs etc. shall be provided. Workers engaged in noisy areas such as turbine area  air compressors etc shall be periodically examined to maintain audiometric record and for treatment for any hearing loss including shifting to non noisy less noisy areas.

Adequate safety measures shall be provided in the plant area to check minimize spontaneous fires especially during summer season. Copy of these measures with full details along with location plant layout shall be submitted to the Ministry as well as to the Regional Office of the Ministry.

The project proponent shall ensure that all possible hazards due to the power plant are contained within the plant premises.

An amount of Rs 15.50 Crores shall be earmarked as one time capital cost for CSR programme. Subsequently a recurring expenditure of Rs 3.04 Crores per annum till the life of the plant shall be earmarked as recurring expenditure for CSR activities. Details of the activities to be undertaken shall be submitted to the regional Office of the Ministry along with road map for implementation.

A special scheme for upliftment of SC   ST population in the study area shall be formulated and implemented in a time bound manner. The project proponent shall also identify the rights of Tribals under existing Laws and ensure its protection and implementation thereof.

CSR scheme should address Public Hearing issues and shall be identified based on need based assessment in and around the villages within 5 km of the site and in constant consultation with the village Panchayat and the District Administration. As part of CSR prior identification of local employable youth and eventual employment in the project after imparting relevant training shall be also undertaken. The action taken report and details thereof to this effect shall be submitted to the Regional Office of the Ministry and the State Govt. Dept. concerned from time to time.

It shall be ensured that in built monitoring mechanism for the schemes identified is in place and annual social audit shall be got done from the nearest government institute of repute in the region. The project proponent shall also submit the status of implementation of the scheme from time to time. The project proponent shall also put on the company   s website the activities undertaken with budgetary achievements.

The three tier Green Belt shall be raised all around the plant site which shall comprise of not less than 33  of the total area. The project proponent shall ensure that the density of trees are not less than 2500 per ha and rate of survival of plantation shall be not less than 80 . The selection of plant species shall be as per the CPCB guidelines in consultation with the DFO.

An Environmental Cell shall be created at the project site itself and shall be headed by qualified officer  who is well versed with the environmental aspects.  It shall be ensured that the Head of the Cell shall directly report to the head of the Organization.

Regional Office of the Ministry of Environment   Forests will monitor the implementation of the stipulated conditions. A complete set of documents including Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environment Management Plan along with the additional information submitted from time to time shall be forwarded to the Regional Office for their use during monitoring. Project proponent will up load the compliance status in their website and up date the same from time to time at least six monthly basis. Criteria pollutants levels including NOx  from stack   ambient airshall be displayed at the main gate of the   power plant and in public domain.

Separate funds shall be allocated for implementation of environmental protection measures along with item wise break up. These cost shall be included as part of the project cost. The funds earmarked for the environment protection measures shall not be diverted for other purposes and year wise expenditure should be reported to the Ministry.

The project authorities shall inform the Regional Office as well as the Ministry regarding the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the dates of start of land development work and commissioning of plant.

Full cooperation shall be extended to the Scientists Officers from the Ministry   Regional Office of the Ministry CPCB  SPCB who would be monitoring the compliance of environmental status.
