
of area will be required  rigs will be used which will be removed after the activity is completed. Site clearance is done for rig erection and drilling activity of a limited area  150mX150only for onland drilling. There will be a water storage pit for collection of wastewater  which comes out after drilling operation and the same  is recycled and reused during drilling phase. These storage arrangements will be temporary in nature and will be made at each site for about 45 days  as after the wells are completed  the requirements will cease to exist. Necessary fire fighting arrangements will be made and safety precautions will be taken at the storage site.  The pit is lined with polyethylene propylene sheet. At the end of the drilling phase  the waste drilling fluid is solar dried  filed with soil and capped with compacted murrum layer. The drill cuttings are removed from the mud by the shale shakers and transferred to the mud tank. The mud is cleaned and pumped down the drill again. The drilling mud is about 250m3 and drilling cutting is collected  dried and disposed of safely as per norms. The sewage generated will be treated in a septic tank     soak pit system. The septic tank will conform to the IS design specification. During operation approximately 18 20 persons will be required for manning each shift. The operations will be carried out in two twelve hourly shifts. Light vehicles will be utilized for their to and fro movement from the site.

It shall be ensured that no bunds and other civil construction is constructed in the Coastal Regulation Zone area and the decommissioning including dismantling of the civil structures after completion of the exploration shall be carried out as per the plan submitted to the Expert Committee.

It shall be ensured that the effluent generated from the site including the sewage shall be disposed of after treatment. No untreated waste  solid waste shall be disposed of in the coastal waters  CRZ area.

Labour camps shall be located outside Coastal Regulation Zone area.

No ecologically sensitive area Coastal Regulation Zone I areas shall be disturbed.

Necessary facilities as detailed out in the oil spillage contingency plan and fire fighting equipments shall be installed before commencement of work.

The road connectivity map as submitted to the Committee shall be implemented. These roads shall be dismantled after decommissioning the project.

The Schedule for commencement of the drilling operation should be intimated at least one month in advance to the Wildlife Warden Member Secretary  Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority and the Coast Guards having jurisdiction over the nearest coastal area so as to enable them to monitor its impact  if any  on the wild life and the coastal waters coastal zone.

Approval from DG Shipping under the Merchant Shipping Act prior to commencement of the drilling operations should be obtained.

Use of diesel base mud is prohibited. Only water based drilling fluids   mud should be used for the drilling operation.  As reflected in the EMP the drilling fluid should be recycled to a maximum extent.  There should be no discharge of drilling fluid   mud   cuttings into sea.  The unusable drilling fluid and  entire drill cuttings should be disposed off onshore in a well designed pit  lined   with impervious  liner. The disposal pit should be provided with leakage collection system. Design details of the waste disposal pit  capping of disposal pit should be approved by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board. The waste pit after it is filled up should be covered with impervious liner over which  a thick layer of native soil with proper slope should be provided.

The chemical additives used for preparation of drilling fluid  DFshould have low toxicity i.e.  96 hr LC50   30 000 mg l as per mysid toxicity test conducted on locally available sensitive sea species. The chemicals used  mainly organic constituentshould be bio degradable.

Barite used in preparation of DF should not contain Hg  1mg  kg and Cd 3mg  kg.

Drilling waste water including drill cuttings wash water should be collected in the disposed pit  evaporated and treated and should comply with notified standards for on shore disposal.

The company should get analysed the drill cuttings generated from each well from any recognized laboratory for its characteristics and results should be submitted to Ministry of Environment   Forests CPCB Gujarat Pollution Control Board periodically.

The used oil generated from drill site should be collected and sold to registered recyclers having environmentally sound management facility.

In case  environmentally acceptable methods for disposal of drill waste such as  ainjection to a formation  through caring annulus  if conditions allow  bland farming at suitable location  cbio remediation  dincinerator or  esolidification should be considered  in that case company should submit proposal to Gujarat Pollution Control Board Ministry of Environment   Forests for approval.

In case the commercial viability of the project is established  the company will prepare a detailed plan for development of oil and gas fields and obtain fresh clearance from the Ministry.

Adequate infrastructure facilities should be provided near the off shore installations so that booms  skimmers  chemical dispersants could be deployed immediately in case of oil leakage from the installation. Appropriate Oil Spill Management Plan should be drawn and efforts should be made to curtail the oil slick within 500 meters of the installation and accordingly  action plan and facilities to check the oil slick beyond 500 meters should be provided.

No drilling well should be located in mangrove area.

It shall be ensured that during movement of man and material no destruction of mangroves is carried out.

No groundwater shall be tapped for the project.

The solid waste generated during the drilling process and from the equipment should be disposed of safely in consultation with Gujarat State Pollution Control Board.

No landfill site should be located in Coastal Regulation Zone area. The solid waste generated from the drill cutting  solar evaporated drilling mud sediments should be disposed off after treatment.

No camp sites for labours should be set up in Coastal Regulation Zone area. The toilets to be constructed in Coastal Regulation Zone areas should have septic tank and soak pit.

The waste water generated from the project should be treated and disposed of as per the norms laid down by Gujarat State Pollution Control Board.

Oil blow out preventing device to be provided against the hazard of oil blow out.

Hydrocarbon leak due to loss of containment shall be checked and prevented immediately.

The project proponent shall also comply with the environmental protection measures and safeguards recommended in the EIA EMP DMP report.

  Regional Office  WZ  E 3 240  Arera Colony  Bhopal 462016.

  Ministry of Environment   Forests  Paryavaran Bhavan  CGO Complex  Lodi Road  New Delhi.
