
The zinc concentration in the effluent at the discharge point shall be monitored and the report submitted to Regional Office Bhopal at very three months.

All the conditions stipulated by Forests and Environment Department  Government of Gujarat vide their letter No.ENV 10 2008 1177 E  dated 6.10.2008 shall be strictly implemented.

The pipelines shall not disturb the movement of fishing vessels or fishermen.

It shall be ensured that there is no displacement of people  houses or fishing activity as a result of the project.

It shall be ensured that due to the project  there is no adverse impact on the drainage of the area and recharge of groundwater. No groundwater shall be tapped in the project area falling in Coastal Regulation Zone.

The project proponent must ensure that the effluents  liquid waste discharged are as per the standards laid down by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board.

The camps of labour shall be kept outside the Coastal Regulation Zone area. Proper arrangements for cooking fuel shall be made for the labour during construction phase so as to ensure that mangroves are not cut destroyed for this purpose.

The entire stretch of the pipelines shall be buried underground except at the booster pumping station  which will be properly fenced and the station would be manned round the clock. The buried lines will be protected with anticorrosive coaltar based coating. The coating will be tested in accordance with prescribed standards.

Markers shall be installed at every 30 m to indicate the position of the line. Regular patrolling of the pipeline needs to be done. This will help in identifying any activity that have the potential to cause pipeline damage or to identify small leaks whose effects are too small to be detected by instrument.

There shall be display boards at critical locations along the pipeline viz road rail river crossings giving emergency instructions as well as contact details of M s Indian Rayon. This will ensure prompt information regarding location of accident during any emergency. Emergency Information board shall contain emergency instructions in addition to contact details.

All necessary clearances from the concerned agencies shall be obtained before initiating the project.

The project shall be implemented in such a manner that there is no damage whatsoever to the mangroves other sensitive coastal ecosystems. If any damage to mangroves is anticipated envisaged as a result of project activities then the clearance now being accorded shall stand cancelled and the proponents may seek fresh approval from the Ministry.

A continuous and comprehensive post project marine quality monitoring programme shall be taken up. This shall include monitoring of water quality  sediment quality and biological characteristics covered in the EIA studies.

Construction of the proposed structures shall be undertaken meticulously confirming to the existing Central local rules and regulations. All the construction designs drawings relating to the proposed construction activities must have approvals of the concerned State Government Department Agencies.

The project authorities shall take appropriate community development and welfare measures for the villagers in the vicinity of the project site  including drinking water facilities. A separate fund shall be allocated for this purpose.

To meet any emergency situation  appropriate fire fighting system shall be installed. Appropriate arrangements for uninterrupted power supply to the environment protection equipment and continuous water supply for the fire fighting system shall be made.

A separate Environment Management Cell with suitably qualified staff to carry out various environment related functions shall be set up under the charge of a Senior Executive who will report directly to the Chief Executive of the Company.

The funds earmarked for environment protection measures shall be maintained in a separate account and there shall be no diversion of these funds for any other purpose. A year wise expenditure on environmental safeguards shall be reported to this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal.

Full support shall be extended to the officers of this Ministry   s Regional Office at Bhopal and the officers of the Central and State Pollution Control Board by the project proponents during their inspection for monitoring purposes  by furnishing full details and action plans including the action taken reports in respect of mitigative measures and other environmental protection activities.

In case of deviation or alteration in the project including the implementing agency  a fresh reference shall be made to this Ministry for modification in the clearance conditions or imposition of new one for ensuring environmental protection. The project proponents shall be responsible for implementing the suggested safeguard measures.

This Ministry reserves the right to revoke this clearance  if any of the conditions stipulated are not complied with to the satisfaction of this Ministry.

This Ministry or any other competent authority may stipulate any other additional conditions subsequently  if deemed necessary  for environmental protection  which shall be complied with.

A copy of the clearance letter shall be marked to the concerned Panchayat local NGO  if any  from whom any suggestion representation has been received while processing the proposal.

State Pollution Control Board Committee shall display a copy of the clearance letter at the District Industries Center and Collector   s Office  Tehsildar   s Office for 30 days.

The project proponent shall advertise at least in two local newspapers widely circulated in the region around the project  one of which shall be in the vernacular language of the locality concerned informing that the project has been accorded environmental clearance and copies of clearance letters are available with the Gujarat State Pollution Control Board and may also be seen at website of the Ministry of Environment   Forests at http   www.envfor.nic.in.      

The project proponents shall inform Regional Office Bhopal as well as the Ministry  the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the date of start of work.

The project proponent will obtain the Forest clearance for the land passing through the Reserved Forest area before commencement of the project activities in forest area.

So as to maintain ecological features and avoid damage to the ecosystem  movement of vehicles in the Inter Tidal Zone shall be restricted to the minimum.

Budgetary break up for Environmental Management Plan for the project to be mentioned.

Any appeal against this environmental clearance shall lie with the National Environment Appellate Authority  if preferred  within a period of 30 days as prescribed under Section 11 of the National Environment Appellate Act  1997.

  Veraval 362266.
