
It shall be ensured that the area drainage is not disturbed due to the proposed expansion.

Hydro geological study of the area shall be reviewed annually to assess the sustainability of the source of water particularly in lean season. The review report duly vetted by the concerned Dept. in the state government shall be submitted to the Ministry. In case adverse impact on ground and surface water is observed  immediate mitigating steps to contain the same shall be undertaken.

The treated effluent conforming to the prescribed standards only shall be reused to the extent possible and excess discharged. Arrangements shall be made that effluents and storm water do not do not get mixed.

A sewage treatment plant shall be provided  as applicableand the treated sewage shall be used for raising greenbelt plantation. Continuous monitoring of effluent discharge shall be undertaken and it shall be ensured that when discharge enters the natural drain the temperature of effluent shall be at ambient.

Monitoring of ground and surface water quality  if any nearbyshall be regularly conducted and records maintained. The monitored data shall be submitted to the Ministry regularly. Further  monitoring points shall be located between the plant and drainage in the direction of flow of ground water and records maintained. Monitoring for heavy metals in ground water shall be undertaken.

A well designed rainwater harvesting shall be put in place. Central Groundwater Authority  Board shall be consulted for finalization of appropriate rainwater harvesting technology within a period of three months from the date issue of clearance and details shall be furnished. Status of implementation shall be submitted to the Regional Office of the Ministry.

Adequate safety measures shall be provided in the plant area to check minimize spontaneous fires especially during summer season. Copy of these measures with full details along with location plant layout shall be submitted to the Ministry as well as to the Regional Office of the Ministry.

Noise levels emanating from turbines shall be so controlled such that the noise in the work zone shall be limited to 75 dBA at 1m from the source of noise. For people working in the high noise area  requisite personal protective equipment like earplugs ear muffs etc. shall be provided. Workers engaged in noisy areas such as turbine area  air compressors etc shall be periodically examined to maintain audiometric record and for treatment for any hearing loss including shifting to non noisy less noisy areas.

NOx emission from each Gas Turbine shall not exceed 50 ppm.

Regular monitoring of ground level concentration of NOx shall be carried out in the impact zone and records maintained.  If at any stage the levels are found to exceed the prescribed limits  necessary control measures shall be provided immediately. The location of the monitoring stations and frequency of monitoring shall be decided in consultation with SPCB. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Regional Office of this Ministry. The data shall also be put on the website of the company.

Local employable youth shall be trained in skills relevant to the project for eventual employment in the project itself. The action taken report and details thereof to this effect shall be submitted to the Regional Office of the Ministry and the State Govt. Dept. concerned from time to time.

An amount of Rs 13.60 Crores shall be earmarked as one time capital cost for CSR programme. Subsequently a recurring expenditure of Rs 2.70 Crores per annum till the life of the plant shall be earmarked as recurring expenditure for CSR activities. Details of the activities to be undertaken shall be submitted to the regional Office of the Ministry along with road map for implementation.

CSR scheme shall be identified based on need based assessment in and around the villages within 5 km of the site and in constant consultation with the village Panchayat and the District Administration. As part of CSR prior identification of local employable youth and eventual employment in the project after imparting relevant training shall be also undertaken. Income generating projects consistent with the traditional skills of the people shall be undertaken. Development of fodder farm  fruit bearing orchards  vocational training etc. can form a part of such programme. Company shall provide separate budget for community development activities and income generating programmes. Vocational training programme for possible self employment and jobs shall be imparted to identify villagers free of cost.

It shall be ensured that in built monitoring mechanism for the schemes identified is in place and annual social audit shall be got done from the nearest government institute of repute in the region. The project proponent shall also submit the status of implementation of the scheme from time to time.

Green Belt consisting of 3 tiers of plantations around the plant with adequate tree density not less than 2500 per ha and survival rate not less than 80   shall be developed. The green belt developed shall not be less than 33  of the total area.

The project proponent shall formulate a well laid Corporate Environment Policy and identify and designate responsible officers at all levels of its hierarchy for ensuring adherence to the policy and compliance with conditions stipulated in this clearance letter and other applicable environmental laws and regulations.

Regional Office of the Ministry of Environment   Forests will monitor the implementation of the stipulated conditions. A complete set of documents including Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environment Management Plan along with the additional information submitted from time to time shall be forwarded to the Regional Office for their use during monitoring. Project proponent will up load the compliance status in their website and up date the same from time to time at least six monthly basis. Criteria pollutants levels including NOx  from stack   ambient airshall be displayed at the main gate of the   power plant and in public domain.

Separate funds shall be allocated for implementation of environmental protection measures along with item wise break up. These cost shall be included as part of the project cost. The funds earmarked for the environment protection measures shall not be diverted for other purposes and year wise expenditure should be reported to the Ministry.

The project authorities shall inform the Regional Office as well as the Ministry regarding the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the dates of start of land development work and commissioning of plant.

Full cooperation shall be extended to the Scientists Officers from the Ministry   Regional Office of the Ministry at Bangalore   CPCB  SPCB who would be monitoring the compliance of environmental status.
