

No.11-80/2008-IA-III
Government of India

Ministry of Environment and Forests

(IA-III Division)

 

Paryavaran Bhavan,

CGO Complex, Lodhi Road,

New Delhi – 110003.

 

Dated the 20th October, 2008

 

Sub:     Environmental clearance for laying pipeline for disposal of treated effluent in the coastal environment of Arabian Sea, off Veraval coast by M/s Indian Rayon – regarding.

****

 

            Reference is invited to letter No.ENV-10-2008-1177-E, dated 6.10.2008 from Forests and Environment Department, Government of Gujarat and letters No.Nil, dated 22.7.2008 and No.C-18130, dated 8.9.2008 from M/s Indian Rayon regarding the subject mentioned above.

 

2.         The project involves laying of a pipeline for discharging treated effluent in the coastal environment of Arabian Sea, off Veraval coast at a suitable location through pipeline. The proposed discharge of the treated effluent will be 12,000m3/day. Current maximum water requirement of power is 12060m3/day which is used mainly in unit, power plant and caustic soda plant. Treated effluent is being generated around 8500m3/day. After proposed expansion, requirement of water would be around 13,000m3/day which will be drawn from Hiren dam at Umrethi Village permission is obtained from irrigation department. Expected generation of treated effluent 8540m3/day. Proposed discharge point of treated effluent suggested by CSMCRI at Latitude 20o54.825’N, and Longitude 70o20.184”E. The treated effluent, at present, is being disposed off into the sea creek through open channel. The water from River Devka mixes with treated effluent and carries into the open sea. The proponent proposes to discharge their treated effluent, after meeting the standards laid by Gujarat PCB, into the coastal environment of Arabian Sea, off Veraval coast at a suitable location through pipeline. For release of 15,000m3/day of treated effluent, jet velocity of 3.0m/s and pipeline diameter of 25m(~10 inch) are considered adequate at a depth of 9.4-11.6m. This position may be shifted by 50m upstream/downstream with a similar depth on engineering considerations. The pipeline will traverse the seabed, 991m including intertidal region of about 90m to the discharge point. Dredging, trenching will be carried out for laying of the pipeline. Total pipeline project cost is Rs.5.77 crores.

 

3.         The proposal was considered by Expert Appraisal Committee at its meeting held on 21st & 22nd August, 2008 and 18th & 19th September, 2008 and has recommended. Keeping in view the above facts, the  proposal has been examined in the Ministry of Environment & Forests and environmental clearance from Coastal Regulation Zone Notification, 1991 as amended from time to time is hereby accorded to this project subject to effective implementation of the following conditions:-

 

A. SPECIFIC CONDITIONS:

 

(i)      The zinc concentration in the effluent at the discharge point shall be monitored and the report submitted to Regional Office Bhopal at very three months.

 

(ii)    All the conditions stipulated by Forests and Environment Department, Government of Gujarat vide their letter No.ENV-10-2008-1177-E, dated 6.10.2008 shall be strictly implemented.

 

(iii)               The pipelines shall not disturb the movement of fishing vessels or fishermen.

 

(iv)  It shall be ensured that there is no displacement of people, houses or fishing activity as a result of the project.

 

(v)    It shall be ensured that due to the project, there is no adverse impact on the drainage of the area and recharge of groundwater. No groundwater shall be tapped in the project area falling in Coastal Regulation Zone.

 

(vi)  The project proponent must ensure that the effluents /liquid waste discharged are as per the standards laid down by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board.

 

(vii) The camps of labour shall be kept outside the Coastal Regulation Zone area. Proper arrangements for cooking fuel shall be made for the labour during construction phase so as to ensure that mangroves are not cut/destroyed for this purpose.

 

(viii)           The entire stretch of the pipelines shall be buried underground except at the booster pumping station, which will be properly fenced and the station would be manned round the clock. The buried lines will be protected with anticorrosive coaltar based coating. The coating will be tested in accordance with prescribed standards.

 

(ix)  Markers shall be installed at every 30 m to indicate the position of the line. Regular patrolling of the pipeline needs to be done. This will help in identifying any activity that have the potential to cause pipeline damage or to identify small leaks whose effects are too small to be detected by instrument.

 

(x)    There shall be display boards at critical locations along the pipeline viz road/rail/river crossings giving emergency instructions as well as contact details of M/s Indian Rayon. This will ensure prompt information regarding location of accident during any emergency. Emergency Information board shall contain emergency instructions in addition to contact details.

 

(xi)  All necessary clearances from the concerned agencies shall be obtained before initiating the project.

 

(xii) The project shall be implemented in such a manner that there is no damage whatsoever to the mangroves/other sensitive coastal ecosystems. If any damage to mangroves is anticipated/envisaged as a result of project activities then the clearance now being accorded shall stand cancelled and the proponents may seek fresh approval from the Ministry.

 

(xiii)           A continuous and comprehensive post-project marine quality monitoring programme shall be taken up. This shall include monitoring of water quality, sediment quality and biological characteristics covered in the EIA studies.

 

B. GENERAL CONDITIONS:

 

(i)      Construction of the proposed structures shall be undertaken meticulously confirming to the existing Central/local rules and regulations. All the construction designs/drawings relating to the proposed construction activities must have approvals of the concerned State Government Department/Agencies.

 

(ii)    The project authorities shall take appropriate community development and welfare measures for the villagers in the vicinity of the project site, including drinking water facilities. A separate fund shall be allocated for this purpose.

 

(iii)   To meet any emergency situation, appropriate fire-fighting system shall be installed. Appropriate arrangements for uninterrupted power supply to the environment protection equipment and continuous water supply for the fire fighting system shall be made.

 

(iv)  A separate Environment Management Cell with suitably qualified staff to carry out various environment related functions shall be set up under the charge of a Senior Executive who will report directly to the Chief Executive of the Company.

 

(v)    The funds earmarked for environment protection measures shall be maintained in a separate account and there shall be no diversion of these funds for any other purpose. A year-wise expenditure on environmental safeguards shall be reported to this Ministry’s Regional Office at Bhopal.

 

(vi)  Full support shall be extended to the officers of this Ministry’s Regional Office at Bhopal and the officers of the Central and State Pollution Control Board by the project proponents during their inspection for monitoring purposes, by furnishing full details and action plans including the action taken reports in respect of mitigative measures and other environmental protection activities.

 

(vii) In case of deviation or alteration in the project including the implementing agency, a fresh reference shall be made to this Ministry for modification in the clearance conditions or imposition of new one for ensuring environmental protection. The project proponents shall be responsible for implementing the suggested safeguard measures.

 

(viii)           This Ministry reserves the right to revoke this clearance, if any of the conditions stipulated are not complied with to the satisfaction of this Ministry.

 

(ix)  This Ministry or any other competent authority may stipulate any other additional conditions subsequently, if deemed necessary, for environmental protection, which shall be complied with.

 

(x)    A copy of the clearance letter shall be marked to the concerned Panchayat/local NGO, if any, from whom any suggestion/representation has been received while processing the proposal.

 

(xi) State Pollution Control Board/Committee shall display a copy of the clearance letter at the District Industries Center and Collector’s Office/ Tehsildar’s Office for 30 days.

 

(xii) The project proponent shall advertise at least in two local newspapers widely circulated in the region around the project, one of which shall be in the vernacular language of the locality concerned informing that the project has been accorded environmental clearance and copies of clearance letters are available with the Gujarat State Pollution Control Board and may also be seen at website of the Ministry of Environment & Forests at http///www.envfor.nic.in.      

 

(xiii)           The project proponents shall inform Regional Office Bhopal as well as the Ministry, the date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities and the date of start of work.

 

(xiv)           The project proponent will obtain the Forest clearance for the land passing through the Reserved Forest area before commencement of the project activities in forest area.

 

(xv)            So as to maintain ecological features and avoid damage to the ecosystem, movement of vehicles in the Inter Tidal Zone shall be restricted to the minimum.

 

(xvi)           Budgetary break up for Environmental Management Plan for the project to be mentioned.

 

(xvii)         Any appeal against this environmental clearance shall lie with the National Environment Appellate Authority, if preferred, within a period of 30 days as prescribed under Section 11 of the National Environment Appellate Act, 1997.

 

4.         The above mentioned stipulations will be enforced among others under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, the Environment (protection) Act, 1986, the Hazardous Chemicals (Manufacture, Storage and Import) Rules, 1989, the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification, 1991 and its subsequent amendments and the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 and the Rules made thereunder from time to time. The project proponents shall also ensure that the proposal complies with the provisions of the approved Coastal Zone Management Plan of Gujarat and the Supreme Court`s order dated 18th April, 1996 in the Writ Petition No.664 of 1993 to the extent the same are applicable to this proposal.

 

Sd/-

(Dr. A. Senthil Vel)

Additional Director

 

To,

            Director (Environment),

            Forests & Environment Department,

            Government of Gujarat, Block No.14,

            8th Floor, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar – 382 010.

 

Copy to:

 

1.       The Chief Conservator of Forests, Ministry of Environment & Forests, Ministry of Environment & Forests, Regional Office (Western Region), Kendriya Paryavaran Bhavan, Link Road No.3, Ravi Shankar Nagar, Bhopal – 4620 16.

2.       The Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board, Parivesh Bhavan, CBD-cum-Office Complex, East Arjun Nagar, Delhi – 110032.

3.       The Chairman, Gujarat State Pollution Control Board, Paryavaran Bhavan, Sector 10-A, Gandhinagar – 382 010, Gujarat.

4.       Mr. P. Narsimha Roa, Vice President – HR, M/s Indian Rayon (A unit of Aditya Birla Nuvo Limited), Veraval-362266.

5.       DIG (SU), Regional Office Cell, Ministry of Environment & Forests, New Delhi.

6.       Guard File.

7.       Monitoring Cell.

8.       Director (EI), Ministry of Environment & Forests, New Delhi.

 

Sd/-

(Dr. A. Senthil Vel)

Additional Director
